## CogSci 2020 experiments

Here the code for the three experiments reported at CogSci 2020 can be found. Each directory contains one of the experiments. The experiments and the preregistrations can be viewed [here](https://tinyurl.com/rcsyz9f).
* Experiment 1 (`syntax-rating`): In this experiment, participants complete 2 task comprehension trials and 6 main trials. On the main trials, they see a basic-level context and a target referent pictured below. The referent is described by the two critical sentences differing syntactically (subject vs. predicate NP). Between-trials, the N of the sentence is either the basic-level or the subordinate referent label.
* Experiment 2 (`np-production`): This directory contains two separate experiments for deploying the subject-NP condition (`exp1-predicative`) and the predicate-NP condition (`exp1-prenominal`) between-subjects. The two experiments differ in the file `04_trials.js` only. Here, participants complete 2 rounds, consisting of 3 warm-up labeling trials and 3 main trials each. On main trials, participants see a basic-level context, a target referent below, and fill-in a sentence missing the N (either 'That \_\_ is big' or 'That's a big \_\_')
* Experiment 3 (`cc-inference`): In this experiment, participants complete a task comprehension trial followed by 2 rounds, consisting of 3 warm-up trials and 6 main trials each (for a total of 12 critical trials). On the main trials, they see an either basic-level or subordinate context, a target below, and read the critical sentence where the N is either 'one', the basic-level or the subordinate referent label. The N appears in the subject or in the predicate of the sentence. All conditions are within-subjects. Participants provide the inferred comparison class by filling-in the sentence "It is big relative to other \_\_".    


All experiments were realised based on the [magpie departure-point](https://github.com/magpie-ea/magpie-departure-point).  
